So let's get started at setting up
a cloud-based continuous integration environment from zero.
One of the things that we're going to do here is,
we're going to create a new GitHub repo.
That GitHub repo, we'll check it out into AWS Cloud9,
which is a cloud-based development environment.
Then we'll set it up so that it will run our code,
and lint it, and test it every single time we make a change.
So this is called continuous integration.
Really, the flavor here is a new flavor in that
it's a cloud-based continuous integration environment.
So I'm going to go over to Cloud9.
Cloud9 is something that is part of AWS,
and you can use it using the free tier.
I'm assuming that you have an AWS account.
Go ahead and create an environment.
So we'll go ahead and say hello.
We'll call this the hello environment.
Then I'll scroll over to the next step.
From here, I would recommend leaving everything default.
So create a new instance for the environment,
leave it as a micro,
the platform, leave it as Amazon Linux,
and then we'll go ahead and go to this next step.
From here, what will happen is it'll take approximately,
let's say 30-60 seconds,
and then this will enable a cloud-based development environment.
What's really handy about this is that because this is hosted inside of AWS,
you can get a faster network connection.
You also don't have to worry about the security credentials.
It's provisioned with the accounts credentials
that you created the Cloud9 environment with.
So it solves a lot of problems that typically come up with a development environment.
Additionally, it auto-times out after the interval that you set.
In this case, I let the default set to 30 minutes.
It's really also very cost effective.
So I would say for 100 percent of students that are using AWS,
this would be one of the resources that you should use.
It's incredibly powerful and solves
many problems that are really tricky to solve unless you have advanced skills.
So now that the Cloud9 environment is set up,
there's a couple of things that I'll show you that are helpful.
So first of all,
I would typically just go through here and make sure
that you understand that it's got Python3 installed.
You also should be aware of things like,
if you do ls -la,
it'll show you not only the directories contents,
but also the invisible files that'll come in handy in a second.
Then also, it comes pre-installed with a lot of tools,
like Docker is already installed,
for example, Git is already installed.
So basically, all the commands that you're going to need.
So the first thing we should do is create a Git repo.
So I'm going to go to GitHub and I'm going to say, "New",
and we'll call this repo hello to match the name
of our development environment; hello demo repo.
I'm going to leave it as public because, for students,
I would recommend a lot of your projects to be public so you can create a rich portfolio.
Go ahead and initialize this repo with a README.
This is actually very important,
is for the gitignore,
go ahead and select Python.
What this is going to do is,
it's going to make sure that there aren't
garbage files that are checked into your project.
That's really all you need to do.
Now we'll go ahead and say "Create new repository".
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to click on this button here, "Clone or download."
Let's go ahead and copy that.
Next, I'm going to go back to my Cloud9 environment,
and I'm going to attempt to check it out,
and it won't work.
The reason why, is that it's going to require me to set up an SSH key.
So I'm going to say git clone.
It will say, "Could not read from the remote repository."
which is what I was expecting.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create SSH keys locally here.
So ssh-keygen -t rsa.
I'll press return a few times.
That will create a file here that I'll get access to by just running the cat command.
So I'll highlight this,
type in the command cat,
like that, and then that'll paste out the contents of that key.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab the contents.
You notice I start here,
at the beginning of ssh rsa,
all the way down to where the IP address is.
Now I'm going to go over to GitHub,
and I'm going to go to my profile,
and I'm going to select the "Settings."
From here, I'll go to "SSH and GPG keys".
I'll create New SSH key,
and I'll paste that in there.
We'll call this hello cloud9,
so I know what it is.
This is always a good idea to make sure that you are meticulous about your documentation.
Next up here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to now attempt that clone again.
This time, it'll work. I'm going to use the up arrow.
This is a great way to reuse a command. I clone it.
Awesome. Now I have the hello repo,
and we're ready to go to the next step.
So now that I've got access to that, typically,
what I would do is start to build out the scaffolding for my project.
So one of the first things that I typically do is I will cd into that directory.
So let's go into the hello directory here.
Then we can actually add some things inside of that README file.
So let's go ahead and let's actually run an echo command.
If you see this, this will basically append to this README file a line.
If I double-click on it,
you can see that inside of the hello directory, sorry,
this directory, this hello directory,
you can see that I put some stuff inside of there.
Then from here, let's just go through the steps of what's required to check in the code.
So I would say git add README.
Next up, I would say git commit,
and we'll say, add in name of the repo.
Now, this is something that's going to come up here,
is the first time you use a new repository,
you're going to have to set these settings.
So I'm going to go ahead and set these up.
So I'm going to do git config,
and I'll just change it out to my name.
This will be Noah Gift.
Then next here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to append my name here.
So I'm going to go ahead and say, noah.gift@gmail.com. There we go.
Then I will do the final step,
which is amend the author.
So this is a one time only thing.
I'll go ahead and say write this out.
So Control zero, and then I'll return,
and then I'll do a Control X to exit.
Great. So now that I've got that done,
I'm basically set up now for a full round-trip,
and I can read and write back to that repo.
So let's go ahead and double-check that repo and make sure that we can see the changes.
If I go to hello here,
it should show up in the list of repos. There we go.
You can see in fact that I did make that change,
and you can see it was made just 33 seconds ago.
Great. So we got the GitHub setup.
So now let's go to the next step,
which is typically, I would then go and create a Python virtual environment.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to type in, Python3 -m venv.
At this point, what I typically do, as a convention,
is I always create the virtual environment with
a.file here so that it's invisible and it's not showing,
because if you work on a lot of projects,
you'll have a lot of virtual environments.
So I put a dot so it won't show up.
Then I also name it the same thing as the name of the repo.
That way, I don't get confused.
It's like, which virtual environment do I use?
If you use the name of the repo that you set up,
then you know that you can always
correlate the name of that virtual environment with your repo.
Once you set that up,
then the next step is to actually activate it.
To activate environment, you say,
source Tilda /.hello bin activate.
Now, let's go ahead and verify that it works.
So if I say, which Python 3?
You'll see that it's going to refer to the Python that's in this virtual environment.
You also can see this.hello here.
So the real problem that virtual environment
solves is that you don't have to worry about packages
being installed in the main system's location and then having conflicts.
It's really common to have a specific version of Python that
one GitHub project needs and then have another specific package that another one needs.
So this really eliminates all those problems for you.
So now that we've got that,
one of the things that I would typically do
is make my life a little bit easier here by creating an alias so
that all I have to do when I go into an environment
is basically type a command in and it will cd into the GitHub repo,
and also source the virtual environment.
So I'm going to deactivate it first so you can see this.
So now let's deactivate it.
I'm going to type in pwd.
This is the path where my source code lives.
So this is a very important step in order to create this automated alias that I set up.
So next, what I can do is I can use the VI editor to actually edit the bashrc file.
So I'm going to go here, I'm going to say,
vim Tilda /.bashrc" Then I can go to the bottom.
I typically use Shift G and then go to the bottom.
By the way, you can use any editor you want,
like Emacs, or Nano, or something like that.
Then I'm going to create an alias in here.
So I'll put a comment that says alias,
and then I'll paste in this command,
and I'll say alias hello.
Then I put in this sequence.
So I say cd, and I put in the path where my source code is checked out,
and then I do this and operation.
Essentially, what this does is it says go on to
the next step if the first step is successful.
Then I do the activation.
So I say source tilda slash dot hello bin activate.
There we go. Now, I can close this out so I go escape and then I do colon wq, return.
Then because I'm in this actual shell,
I'll have to source it so that it knows that alias.
Then the next time I open this up,
it should remember this alias. There we go.
If I source this,
if I type in the word hello now,
let's say, we'll go to the temp directory,
and then I type in hello,
or even you can actually type an alias,
and it will show you all of
the different aliases and you can see here is that alias that's set up.
Now, if I type in hello,
it automatically does what I want which is cd into
the GitHub repo and automatically activate my virtual environment.
This is a very handy pattern that you can use on any project.
Now that we've got that set up,
we're ready to go to the next step which is to
create a very simple make file scaffolding.
So what I typically will do here is I'll run the touch command and I'll type in Makefile,
and then really, I will typically
use a common scaffolding for any makefile that I set up.
So let's go ahead and double-click on this Makefile here and we can edit it.
Now, this is very important here is that makefiles like tabs.
So I'm going to click on the
"Spaces" and I'm going
to go to tabs here,
so let's see, "Convert to Tabs",
and then now we've got tabs.
Then what I'll do is I will paste this in which
is some info that's in the setup file that I've shown for this project,
and then I'll typically just use this scaffolding to set things up.
So we'll say, install, that looks good.
Then for test, it would look something like this.
This will be really whatever your project is.
So I'm going to comment this out for now because we don't have any testing set up yet,
but you would change this out to be what your project's testing is.
Then for lint, I'm going to create a hello script in here,
so I'm going to just call this hello.py.
That looks pretty good.
Then the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to create
a requirements file because this is how I typically do in installation.
So I'll go ahead and say, touch requirements.txt,
like this, and then inside of the requirements file,
I can put in pylint, just like that.
This is where you could also put in Pandas or scikit-learn or whatever you want.
Now that I've set that up,
I can use the power of the makefile.
So what I could do is I can run make install.
This is really handy because I can use this same technique
later when I do a integration with CircleCI.
So that's setup now.
Pretty much, we're ready to go.
The only other thing here is to create a really simple file so I can lint it.
So I'll go ahead and say, touch hello.py,
and this will be some source code,
we'll just say def,
my function here, and we'll say return one,
and then I'll just call it.
So this function is basically can do barely anything but I tested out,
it looks like it works.
Maybe I even will print it here.
So now that I've got that set up,
what I can do is I can run make lint,
make sure that the lint works.
Looks like the code is acceptable.
If you wanted to check test out making a fail,
do something like this, make some bad code in there,
run the lint again and you can see that it fails.
Great. Now that I've got that setup,
really, we're ready to go for integrating CircleCI.
So I'm going to push all this code first so I'm going to say, git status,
I'm going to say git add star, git commit,
adding initial setup, push this, git push.
Really, I'm going to go over to CircleCI here and finish this off.
So I'm going to go to CircleCI and I'm going to select "Go to app".
Once I log in,
I have to select the right organization,
it's going to be my username.
Then there's something on the left here that says add projects.
So I'm going to click on "Add Project" right here,
and you can see the hello repo right there.
I'm going to say "Set Up Project".
Then it's going to ask me some things so I'm going to say "Linux",
and then also select "Python".
Once we do that,
I can copy this config.yml file.
But notice, it says you have to create a folder called.circleci.
So I'm going to go back to Cloud9 here,
and I'm going to expose hidden file.
So if you see this icon,
this little gear icon,
click on this, say, "Show Hidden Files".
So we want to make sure that we could show hidden files.
Now, what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to make directory.circleci, like that.
That's not spelled right, circleci.
Then I'm going to touch.circleci/config.yml.
Now that I've got that file setup,
this is going to be pretty easy.
I just go here to this sample file here,
and I'm going to copy it to my clipboard,
and then I'm going to go back to Cloud9 and just paste it in.
That's not the right paste,
let's make sure we get this paste in here.
You can also just copy like this as well.
We'll copy that and we'll paste this in here.
So I'm going to clean this up a little bit and really,
a couple things to point out here is that a lot of times,
I like to just get rid of comments because they just add a lot of noise.
This is their own Docker container that's running Python 3.6.1.
You could change it to maybe a later version,
I think CircleCI has some later versions of Python,
this is just a sample directory here or file.
You could also put your own Docker container
as well if you want to do something advanced.
This is good, we want to do the installation,
but I'm going to actually use my code here which is make
install which uses the Makefile command that I already set up,
want to just test the exact way that I'm doing it.
Then I'm also going to get rid of this stuff here,
comments, to make it smaller,
get rid of this test report for now.
Initially, I just wanted to lint.
So I'm going to say run lint.
This is just a description,
it doesn't do anything, it will show up as the name of the command.
Then again from here,
I use that make lint style that I did before,
and then what's nice is the exact commands that
are run locally also get run inside of CircleCI.
So that looks like it works.
Again, I'm going to say, git status.
I'm going to do git add, so git add.circleci.
Then from here, let's push this,
adding circle. Push this.
Once I push it,
it takes literally a couple of seconds,
I can go back to Cloud9,
and then I can go to this project here,
and hello, I could say "Set Up Project",
and I can click on this "Start Building" command
because I've got the CircleCI config integrated.
Then you can see here in real-time,
I can actually look and watch what it's doing.
It's going to run exactly what I told it to do is it's going to
do a make install which is going to install the packages,
and then it's going to do a make lint which will lint the packages.
So if I click on this here,
you can see the commands, there we go.
Look, it's doing the make install.
Then after this is done,
this will take just a second,
it will do a make lint,
there we go, and in fact, run lint.
So this shows up as the name that I said there.
Really, we're ready to go. So there's
further things that we could do to make it a little bit
fancier and one of them is to setup a GitHub badge.
So let's see here,
I'm going to go back to this icon here,
I believe, and then go to "Status Badge".
You can see here, here's the past badge,
I'm going to copy this.
Then I'm going to go to my Cloud9 environment,
and go to the README file,
and just paste this in.
We'll replace this like that,
and then I'm going to do a git status again,
add the README, say adding status.
If I push this,
I can now go back to GitHub,
and if I refresh this,
a status badge will appear, there we go.
Look, if I click on this,
I can actually go and it'll show me the status of the bill.
So that's it, that's the soup to nuts way to set up Cloud9,
and you can extend this later on your own.